So we just talked about
spatial complexity.
Let's go ahead and pop into
a whole section just on tradeoffs.
And again, I actually think this is
the most important part of this course.
I'm gonna show you a bunch
of novel techniques for
sorting things and storing information,
all that kind of stuff.
But the point here is, I wanted to show
you can do things multiple different ways.
And you can decide which one's better or
worse depending on what
the problem constraints are.
And I think, again,
when you're getting into interviews and
talking to an interviewer at a tech
company, if you can discuss the tradeoffs
with them, you're gonna be a leg
up on everyone else, right?
So you can get in there and it's like,
okay, well, we could do it this way, but
we're trading off time.
Or we can do it this way, and
it's gonna cost more on our servers, blah,
blah, blah.
And you can discuss money versus customer
experience or things like that, right?
To me, I have, at this point,
done way too many interviews.
I find that as an interviewer very,
very impressive when a developer is
able to kind of discuss these kind of,
I guess business logic kind of things
based on the constraints that they have.
So I'm just giving you a big hint there
that I think that's a really good idea.
And then just like when you're
writing code, looking at something and
just kinda getting these,
people call them code smells.
But the idea of just these intuitions
of hey, I have a for loop here, and
I'm putting another for loop inside of it.
That's what n square looks like,
this might be a bad idea, right?
That's another thing that I'm kinda
trying to help you understand here.
Yeah, and just thinking about something
in terms of, could this be done better?
And, again,
better is a very subjective term, and
I'm trying to help you
understand the trade offs so
that you can decide what better
means in any particular case.
So my first rule here that I put, and I'll
just zoom in here a little bit on this is,
there are no rules here, right?
There is no always do blink, right?
That's one of the very,
very big keys here.
We talked about best and
worst case scenarios, right?
Sometimes you wanna lean into those best
case scenarios, and sometimes a less
effective algorithm in terms of average
case might have a better best case.
And you might always have a best
case scenario in front of you and
you know that, in which case,
you wanna lean into the best case.
But sometimes, you don't know what
you're gonna get, in which case,
you really wanna lean into the worst and
average case scenarios, right?
So that's one thing here is,
just learn that there are no rules and
you have to reevaluate every
problem in a unique light.
There are frequently
multiple right choices.
It's not like someone's up
there grading you saying
you should have chosen quick sort
instead of merge sort this time.
Frequently, those are both very
effective answers to the same question.
Remember how I told you Big O says
ignore the 3 and the 3x squared?
Sometimes you can't ignore the 3, right?
So even though I taught you Big O and
Big O ignores all
of the coefficients,
the incidentals, right?
If you have a for
loop that does has 10,000 lines in it,
sometimes that coefficient ends up being
enormous and you can't ignore it, right?
So, again, Big O is just one tool,
it's a very blunt instruments
in terms of that it ignores a lot
of the incidental details, and
sometimes the incidental
details are actually critical.
So be aware of that.
Yeah, Sometimes Big O can even be
a bad tool to use in the sense of,
let's imagine, and this is actually
a real story from my career.
I had a job that ingested a bunch of data
from a partner once a day and ran and
did a bunch of processing and then
stored a bunch of stuff in our database.
And I spent just tons of time trying to
optimize that cuz it was a lot of data,
right?
But here's the thing,
that job happened once a day, and
it didn't matter if it took 30 minutes.
No one was waiting on it, right?
It was just updating our database
with the freshest data, right?
So this was really early in my career.
I spent just hours, and days, and weeks,
trying to optimize this to get this down
from, I think I had it 45 seconds
I was trying to get it done.
I was like,
this should run in under a second.
It was a massive waste of time, it didn't
matter that it took 45 seconds, right?
So in this particular case,
I was doing myself and
my company a big disservice by
focusing on something not important.
So those things are only important
when a user's being affected or
it's causing downtime or things like that.
If you're just making a computer wait
a little bit longer, who cares, right?
Who cares that that job took 45 seconds?
No one.
I guess, except me, right?
I cared [LAUGH].
This is probably the most
important thing in here.
Readability and
maintainability are actually
the most important things in code.
I think I heard Kyle Simpson say this,
I don't know if he invented it.
He's a smart guy, but
it might have been someone else.
But he said that code is communication and
that it's more important that a human
can read it than a computer can read it.
And that really challenged my worldview,
the first time I heard it.
And then I realized further and further
it's like, if the only thing was important
was computer time,
we would just be writing assembly, right?
You and I both could learn assembly and
I think everyone that's watching this
course is capable of learning assembly.
Why don't we write assembly?
Or why don't we all write C?
You can write web servers in C, I've done
that before, why don't we all write C?
Well, JavaScript is a lot easier to read,
right?
It's a lot easier to write as well,
but it's a lot easier to read and
it's a lot easier to maintain.
Why do we like TypeScript?
TypeScript is even easier to maintain.
I maintain that this is at
all kind of derived from
the fact that code is communication.
Code is communication to your future self,
it's communication to future developers
that have to maintain your code.
So always, always optimize for
readability and maintainability.
If you have something that's very
simple and it's n squared and
you have something that's hyper optimized
and it's n, the n squared one might
still be the better answer, if it's
a lot easier for you to maintain later.
Only go for that n code, if the
constraints actually call for it, right?
So that's what I'm saying here,
readability and maintainability should be
number 1 on your list, and only optimize
when you actually need to optimize.
Always err on the side of simple.
If you can choose from complex and
simple, simple code
tends to just have less bugs because you
can understand it more holistically.
So where you can, try and
write simple code.
Human time is almost always more
valuable than computer time.
In the sense of what I'm saying is,
if you can throw an additional server at
the problem and it solves your problem,
as opposed to making you write a lot more
code, usually, it's cheaper to run a
server than to pay you to write that code.
So usually it's the right choice for you
to spend your time doing something else.
Talked about this already, but
don't prematurely optimize.
Try to have a perf problem
before you solve a perf problem.
Again, these are high level principles.
I refer you back to rule number 1
here is that there are no rules.
Sometimes you can look at something as,
I know this is gonna be a problem and
I'm going to fix it right now.
But just know that you rarely know
your problems you're about to have.
None of us are code psychics, or
if you are,
I would like to hire you [LAUGH].
And then 99%, and this actually should
probably be like 99.9999% of the time.
You wanna use the built in features to the
language and not write the code yourself.
So for example,
JavaScript has a .sort method, and
it is faster than any sort
that you're gonna write.
Is that really true?
It's actually probably not true,
you probably could write a faster one.
But the thing is V8 gets to cheat.
V8 or SpiderMonkey or
any of the JavaScript engines,
JavaScriptCore would be the other big one.
They get to cheat because
they get to use C and
you don't get to use C when
you're writing JavaScript, right?
So they can drop into the internals
of the engine, sort your code and
hand it back to you frequently
faster than you can do it yourself.
But the other thing I'm gonna
say is that .sort has been so
tested that it's pretty much
guaranteed to be bug free.
If you hit a bug on .sort,
you are doing some just wild stuff and
one, I congratulate you [LAUGH].
And two, it would actually be really
cool thing for you to go fix.
But suffice to say,
.sort has been called on just about every
website out there on the Internet right
now, which means that you're probably
not gonna hit the edge case on it.
Whereas, if you write your
own sorting algorithm,
I guarantee you're gonna have some
bugs that you just don't think about.
So where you can, try and
lean into what other people have done.
Install that module off of NPM,
call the .sort method,
whatever you need to do, but
you'll have less surface area for bugs.
And again, I'd rather spend my time
writing new and novel cool stuff for
my company, rather than solving bugs.
I don't know, maybe I'm strange in
that capacity, but I don't think so.
So the question is, you go out
there you do what I just tell you,
which is, do the unoptimized thing,
do the simple thing, and
then you hit hockey stick growth.
And now instead of having 10 users,
you now have 100,000 users and
you find that you're gonna run into
a lot of performance problems.
So one, congratulations,
[LAUGH] you're living the dream
right there,
which is that you hit scaling problems.
And that's kind of the advice
that I give startups,
it's the advice that I give developers,
try and have good problems.
And having scaling problems
are good problems.
Now they're terrifying and
they're very difficult to solve, right?
But it's why people say
never write Ruby on Rails.
It's this unoptimized things and
look, Twitter had to rewrite and
GitHub had to rewrite and blah, blah,
blah, and all that kind of stuff.
Well, one,
they're billion dollar companies, and
they can now pay people
to solve those problems.
And if you hit hockey stick growth and
go from 10 to 100,000 users,
I hope that you're making enough money now
that you can hire someone to go back and
solve those scaling problems.
I think the YC thing, the Y Combinator,
which is the name of a VC firm is,
do unscalable things.
I quite agree with that in the sense of,
again, normally you're not gonna,
when you have 10 users, you typically
don't know what problems you're
actually gonna have when
you have 100,000 users.
You only know that you're gonna have those
problems when you hit 100,000 users.
Which means you're probably not
gonna solve the right problems.
You think, okay,
this is a bottleneck, this for
loop is definitely gonna get bugged down,
and frequently it's actually over here and
it's a different problem and
it's way bigger, right?
So yes, that's gonna happen and
you should feel very happy
when those things happen.
Does that answer your question?
Cool, other questions?
>> I have one follow up question.
So should we wait for that situation
when there is an increase for
user audience in our app, or we need to
do some performance testing and fix code?
And when should we do
that performance testing?
>> Yes, I think that the crux of
that question is, when should we do
that user tests, load testing and how
much should we do in those kinda things?
It depends, [LAUGH] I think
the answer to that question is,
how many users do you anticipate
in the very near term
are gonna be using your application,
right?
So let's say I work at a startup and
that startup has 10,000 users daily.
I would probably try and load tests for up
to 30,000 users or something like that, or
50,000 or 100,000 or something like that.
Something that's within an order
of magnitude difference, so
that I'm not gonna just fall over my next,
kinda scale up next little growth area.
But I'm not gonna use or test, or
I'm not gonna load test for a million.
I'm not gonna load test for
a billion, right?
Really only Facebook gets to do that.
[LAUGH] So, yeah, try and keep it within,
Growing distance, within sight.
But it's gonna really depend on
what you anticipate growth and
then I guess it also depends on
what else is pressing, right?
If you're doing that instead of
shipping new critical features,
then you probably wanna minimize that and
go work on the critical features.
So it's really a pretty
delicate balance depending
on where you are in your
startup's growth pattern.
>> So what you're saying mean
that we need to be prepared for
the most nearest future.
>> Yeah.
>> Not far away, but in a way for
reasonable future, yeah, okay.
>> Yeah, I think that's a good summation
is be prepared for the visible future.
Cuz it's possible to spend just
infinite cycles on optimization, and
that's not useful to anybody, right?
What's useful is providing value for
your users.
Let's go with unnamed company, one that
many of you have probably heard of.
I had one particular problem,
their search bar was incredibly slow,
just while the inappropriately slow.
And I was so upset, and I still use
the products I liked the product, but
the search bar drove me just bananas.
And I asked one of the engineers,
I was like, why is it so slow?
I'm so upset all the time.
[LAUGH] And basically what they said is,
we looked at that and
is just the gnarliest problem of how
we did this when we first started it.
They were loading just this huge amount
of data set into a device that has no
business loading that much data.
And they basically said, it's gonna
require a huge rewrite of this, and
we have to ship a bunch of stuff before we
can get back to this performance problem.
And I was upset on one hand as a user,
on the other hand,
I totally agree with that
approach of it did work, and
those features that they were shipping,
they did need.
So in that case,
ignoring the performance problem
temporarily was actually the correct call.
And it's fixed now, right?
I still give them endless crap about it,
and they deserve it, yeah.
Anyway, it's a balance.
Okay, let's get into writing some code.
You're all probably sick of
listening to me talk at you.
We are gonna get into Bubble Sort.